# The Impacts of Higher Temperatures on the immune response in Hemigrapsus oregonensis

Rising ocean temperatures have big impacts on crustaceans, which has begun to impact fisheries as stock crashes occur. This research aims to examine how the rising water temperatures impact crab immune systems, in the hope to further understand how disease rates may increase, causing more issues such as bitter crab disease. As climate change continues to increase ocean temperatures, the impacts of these temperature increases have begun to appear in the immune system of animals. Higher temperatures have been found to increase pathogen survival and growth rate, while reducing the ability of animals to fight off said infections (Shields, 2019). The year 2024 had the warmest sea surface temperature recorded, and with the increase in marine heat wave frequency, this trend is expected to continue. Heat has been found to impact species’ distributions, reproductive success, and metabolic rates. The susceptibility of hosts under thermal stress to pathogens has been studied; however, how locally present pathogen species interact with crabs has not. Local pathogen examination could help determine future host-pathogen interactions in local marine areas. In the Salish Sea the crab Metacarcinus magister (Dungeness crab) is an economically crucial species, as one of the most important seafood industries on the west coast of North America. Bitter crab disease has been an issue in the past for this species, making the continued examination of immune responses in these crabs an increasingly important area of research. To examine host-pathogen interactions in commercially significant crustaceans such as the Dungeness crab (M. magister) in the Salish Sea, the crab Hemigrapsus oregonensis (hairy shore crab) was chosen as a proxy. The hairy shore crab is a small (between 1.25 and 1.4 inches long) crab found in intertidal zones, such as mudflats, and is tolerant of temperatures from 3-27°C making it a fitting proxy organism (Dehnel, 1960).

This research aims to examine how temperature affects immune responses in H. oregonensis by measuring through haemocyte concentration and stress assays. The project’s alternative hypothesis is that higher temperatures will result in increased stress levels and decreased haemocyte concentrations in Hemigrapsus oregonensis when exposed to pathogens.
To examine host-pathogen interactions in commercially significant crustaceans such as the Dungeness crab (M. magister) in the Salish Sea, the crab Hemigrapsus oregonensis (hairy shore crab) was chosen as a proxy. The hairy shore crab is a small (between 1.25 and 1.4 inches long) crab found in intertidal zones, such as mudflats, and is tolerant of temperatures from 3-27°C making it a fitting proxy organism (Dehnel, 1960).

This research aims to examine how temperature affects immune responses in H. oregonensis by measuring through haemocyte concentration and stress assays. The project’s alternative hypothesis is that higher temperatures will result in increased stress levels and decreased haemocyte concentrations in Hemigrapsus oregonensis when exposed to pathogens.

To set up the experiment, roughly mixed mud (enough to lay 1.5” at the bottom of two of the three tanks (10 x 20 x 14.5 cm)), was collected at 1:10 pm Friday, April 15th from Golden Gardens Park, Seattle, WA, 98105 and kept in the fridge at ~4°C until the set-up date. All three tanks were then filled with 1.5 L of water, initially at 33 ppt, and the 18 crabs were split equally into three tanks by hand indiscriminately. The treatments were set up as follows: mud and water temperature set at 27˚C, mud and water temperature set at 13˚C, and no mud and water temperature set at 27˚C. The crabs were then left for one week in their respective treatment tanks. At the one-week mark, four crabs were taken from each treatment for testing (totaling twelve crabs) and were given numbers between 1-4. The crabs were then weighed, and the righting times were performed. Two crabs from each test were used to run resazurin assays and two were taken for haemolymph extraction. At the two-week mark the remaining crabs, plus one repeated crab from the mud and heat treatment (due to mortality), were taken, numbered, and put through the same tests as the week before, being separated in half for the resazurin/haemolymph tests as before.

As shown in Figure 1, significantly higher haemocyte concentrations were seen for the heat and mud treatment in week one (between 1540 and 1800) compared to all other treatments that week (below 500). At three or more times the concentration of other treatments, this finding shows a significantly larger immune response in the mud and heat treatment. These higher concentrations were followed by a dramatic drop in the heat and mud haemocyte concentration in week two, at just below 600. This drop to around half the concentration suggests either a collapse in the immune system or some immune suppression due to chronic stress.

The resazurin assay results for treatments with raised temperatures were lower than those in colder water. An increased immune response is energetically taxing, which could cause an exhaustion response and lower the oxygen consumption rate. It could also be due to low health or low activity. The cold and mud treatment had higher resazurin results when compared to the control. This is possibly due to a slight immune response due to the presence of mud but without the immune suppression or exhaustion due to the increased heat the other treatments experienced.  
The haemocyte concentration results of this experiment strongly suggest that an immune reaction followed by a form of immune suppression likely occurred in crabs in the hot and mud treatment tank. The other results were not statistically significant enough to reject the null hypothesis, however, they did suggest an immune reaction or immune suppression occurring in the mud and heat treatment.
References


